DWH(Data Ware house)

What is DWH?
Data Ware house is defined as 
	Subject oriented : This is used to analsye single subject area.
	Integarted : This shows that you can integrate data from diffrent sources
	time varient :Historical data can be maintained and retrival of data can be of any period of time.
	No-Volatile collection of data : once the data is stored inside DWH then we can't alter the data.
for decison making.

Data warehouse concepts 
1.OLTP(Online Processing system}

OLTP is nothing but adatabase which actually stores the daily transactions which is called as current data.
OLTP is used for more of  online applications where application needs to update very frequently in order to maintain consistency in data.

OLTP dealactus with large amount of data.

2.OLAP (Online Analytical processing)
OLAP deals with analytical data for decesion making and planning.
This actually deals with aggregations and data in OLAP will be from diffrent sources.

OLAP deals with relatively small amount of data.

data mart(DM)
DM is nothing but the smallest version of DWH.
DM deals with single subject area.


Types 
1.dependent
2.independent
3.Hybrid DM

DataWarehousing concepts 


DTA MODEL:-
Data Models tells how the logical structure is designed.
Data models are fundamental entities to introduce database management system.
data model define how data is connected to each other and how it will be processed and stored inside the system.


1.conceptual model
This will interpret highest level of relationship between entities 
	> Display important entities and relationship amomng them.
	> No attrubutes 
	> No primary keys

2.logical model
Logical data model defines the data as much as possible , it will show how they can be physically implemented in the database.
	> Display important entities and attributes and relationship amomng them.
	> Primary Key of each entities is specified.
	> If foreign keys exists for each entities then specified.
	> Normalization is performed 

3.physical model
Physical model defines how the model physically exist in the system.
	> Display all the tables and columns
	> Display foreign keys
	> Chnage relationship into foreign keys
	> entity becomes table
	> attrubute becomes columns and defined data types 

